.\"=====================================================================
.TH sqg 8 "xxxDATExxx" sbopkg-xxxVERSIONxxx ""
.\"=====================================================================
.SH NAME
sqg \- SBo Queue Generator
.\"=====================================================================
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B sqg
.RI [ options ]
.\"=====================================================================
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B sqg
is a command-line script to generate queue file(s) to be used by
sbopkg in order to list all dependencies for a certain package.
.\"=====================================================================
.SH OPTIONS
.\"---------------------------------------------------------------------
.TP 5
.BI \-p " PACKAGE(s)"
Creates queuefile(s) for individual package(s). 
Multiple packages can be passed with quotes.
.IP
.B
Package names are case-sensitive.
.IP
For example:
.RS
.IP
.nf
\fC# sqg -p "pkg1 pkg2".\fP
.fi
.RE
.IP
will generate queue file for
.IR pkg1
and
.IR pkg2 .
.TP
.BI \-a
Builds queuefiles for all packages.
.TP
.BI \-j " <num>"
Number of concurrent queuefile generation processes.
This could heavily raise disk I/O so use with care.
.IP
.B
Requires: GNU parallel (auto-detected)
.IP
Default: 1
.TP
.BI \-o " <output>"
 User-defined queue output filename (without .sqf extension).
This could be useful to create custom queue file.
Multiple packages can be passed with quotes.
.IP
For example:
.RS
.IP
.nf
\fC# sqg -p "qt5-webkit sshblock letsencrypt" -o myqueue\fP
.fi
.RE
.IP
will create a new queue called
.B myqueue
containing all dependencies for qt5-webkit, sshblock, and letsencrypt.
.IP
You can then run 
.B
sbopkg -i myqueue
to have them installed (make sure to pick Queue).
.\"=====================================================================
.SH AUTHORS
Willy Sudiarto Raharjo
<willysr@sbopkg.org>

Chess Griffin
<chess@chessgriffin.com>
.PP
Mauro Giachero
<mauro.giachero@gmail.com>
.PP
slakmagik
<slakmagik@gmail.com>
.\"=====================================================================
.\" Make the release process handle a DOCDIR here? But the files from
.\" the official tarball go here.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR sbopkg.conf (5),
.IR /usr/doc/sbopkg-xxxVERSIONxxx/README-queuefiles
