.TH SBOPKG.CONF 5 "September 2008" sbopkg-0.11.2 ""
.SH NAME
.B sbopkg.conf
\- Configuration file for sbopkg

.SH DESCRIPTION

The sbopkg.conf file contains configuration settings for
.B sbopkg
(8), a tool for interacting with the SlackBuilds.org ("SBo")
repository, a collection of third-party SlackBuild scripts to build
Slackware packages.  A sample file is provided at
/etc/sbopkg/sbopkg.conf.new.

The different configuration options are:

.TP 5
.B RSYNCMIRROR
.br
This option allows the user to set the rsync mirror of the SBo
repository that will be used by sbopkg.

The default value of RSYNCMIRROR is slackbuilds.org::slackbuilds.

.TP 5
.B SLACKVER
.br
This option allows the user to set the default Slackware version in
order to rsync with the matching SBo repository.

The default value of SLACKVER is 12.1.

.TP 5
.B LOCALREPO
.br
This option allows the user to set the location of the local rsync
mirror of the SBo repository.

The default value of LOCALREPO is /home/sbo.

.TP 5
.B SRCDIR
.br
This option contains the location of the cache directory where
source downloads will be saved.

The default value of SRCDIR is /var/cache/sbopkg.

.TP 5
.B TMP
.br
This options sets the default directory where certain working
files are saved on a temporary basis.

The default value of TMP is /tmp/SBo.

.TP 5
.B KEEPLOG
.br
This option should be set to YES or NO.  This option allows the user
to choose whether to keep a permanent log of packages that are built
with sbopkg in order to go back and review the build, and any errors,
after exiting sbopkg.  If set to YES, this permanent log is saved at
$TMP/sbopkg-build-log.

The default value of KEEPLOG is YES.

.TP 5
.B TERMBUILD
.br
This option should be set to YES or NO.  This option allows the user
to have the package building process take place in a regular terminal
instead of the dialog interface.  The advantage of doing so allows
the user to use Ctrl-S to pause the output, Ctrl-Q to resume the
output, and to page up and down to view the final output.

The default value of TERMBUILD is NO.

.SH FILES
.TP 5
.B /etc/sbopkg/sbopkg.conf

.SH OVERRIDING ENVIRONMENTAL VARIABLES
It is possible to set or override environmental variables and pass
them to the SlackBuild scripts when they are built from within sbopkg.
This is already demonstrated in the following line in the sbopkg.conf
file:

export TMP=${TMP:-/tmp/SBo}

This sets $TMP to /tmp/SBo for sbopkg purposes (i.e. where sbopkg logs
are kept) and also for building SBo packages within sbopkg (which is
current default for SBo SlackBuilds already).  Since this variable is
exported, it could be changed for both sbopkg and for building SBo
packages within sbopkg.  For example, changing this line so it reads:

export TMP=${TMP:-/home/sbo/tmp}

would then set $TMP to /home/sbo/tmp for sbopkg and for building SBo
packages.

You can also export variables in sbopkg.conf that are not used by
sbopkg at all, as demonstrated by the commented out line towards the
bottom of sbopkg.conf:

export OUTPUT=${OUTPUT:-/tmp}

$OUTPUT is only used in the SBo SlackBuild scripts.  The default
setting of /tmp is the same that is currently used in the SBo
SlackBuild scripts.  By uncommenting the $OUTPUT line in sbopkg.conf,
you can export $OUTPUT for all SlackBuild packages built from within
sbopkg.  For example, you could change this to /home/sbo/packages.

As you can probably see, by making a few changes to these variables,
you could have a completely separated sandbox for SBo purposes -- the
repo at /home/sbo, the $TMP directory at /home/sbo/tmp, the source
cache directory at /home/sbo/cache, and the $OUTPUT directory where
compiled packages are saved at /home/sbo/packages.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR sbopkg (8)
