.TH SBOPKG 8 "Mar 2008" sbopkg-0.0.3 ""
.SH NAME
.B sbopkg
\ - The SlackBuilds.org Package Browser

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B sbopkg
.B [options]

.SH DESCRIPTION
Sbopkg is a command-line and dialog-based tool to interact with the
SlackBuilds.org ("SBo") repository, a collection of third-party
SlackBuild scripts to build Slackware packages.

.SH INSTRUCTIONS
Before sbopkg can be used, a configuration file must be created at
/etc/sbopkg/sbopkg.conf.  A sample file is provided at
/etc/sbopkg/sbopkg.conf.sample. See
.B sbopkg.conf
(5) for more information about the configuration file.  

Sbopkg can be run from the command line by simply invoking "sbopkg."
Doing so will launch the dialog-based interface, and the menus
provided should be fairly explanatory.  The main menu allows the user
to rsync with the SlackBuilds.org repository, view the SlackBuilds.org
Changelog, display the contents of the local cache directory, and
browse the local copy of the SBo repository.  Once the browse function
is chosen, the user can select the category of software to view.
After choosing a category, the user can then view the various software
packages available in the local SBo repository.  Selecting a package
will display another menu allowing the user to view the package's
README, SlackBuild, .info, or slack-desc file.  Additionally, if
sbopkg is run with root privileges, then the user can choose to build
a package as well.  If KEEPLOG is set to YES in the sbopkg.conf file
then a permanent log of the build process is saved in
/tmp/sbopkg-build-log.

Alternatively, sbopkg can be run from the command line without using
the dialog interface.  Executing "sbopkg -h" will display a list of
options available from the command line.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP 5
.B -b PACKAGE
Search for and build PACKAGE from the local SBo repository

.TP 5 
.B -d DIRECTORY
Manually specify the full path to the DIRECTORY containing the 
local SBo repository

.TP 5
.B -f
Override the default configuration file, which is located by
default at /etc/sbopkg/sbopkg.conf, with another configuration
file.  Alternatively, the options contained in the configuration
file can be overridden by using command line options or custom
environmental variables.

.TP 5
.B -h
Display the help

.TP 5
.B -l
Display the SBo ChangeLog.txt and quit

.TP 5
.B -r
Rsync the local repository with SlackBuilds.org and quit

.TP 5
.B -s PACKAGE
Search for PACKAGE and, if found, display the README

.SH FILES
.B /etc/sbopkg/sbopkg.conf
\ - File to specify configuration options.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR sbopkg.conf (5)

.SH AUTHOR
Chess Griffin
<chess@chessgriffin.com>
