.TH SBOPKG 8 "May 2010" sbopkg-SVN ""
.SH NAME
.B sbopkg
\ - The SlackBuilds.org Package Browser

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B sbopkg
.B [options]

.SH DESCRIPTION
Sbopkg is a command-line and dialog-based tool to interact with the
SlackBuilds.org ("SBo") repository, a collection of third-party
SlackBuild scripts to build Slackware packages.

.SH INSTRUCTIONS
Sbopkg usage assumes an understanding of SlackBuild scripts,
generally, and the third-party repository SlackBuilds.org,
specifically.  A thorough reading of http://www.slackbuilds.org/howto/
and the pages at http://www.slackwiki.org about SlackBuild scripts is
strongly advised.

Before sbopkg can be used, a configuration file must be created at
/etc/sbopkg/sbopkg.conf.  A sample file is provided at
/etc/sbopkg/sbopkg.conf.new. See
.B sbopkg.conf
(5) for more information about the configuration file.

Sbopkg can be run from the command line by simply invoking "sbopkg."
Sbopkg must be run as the root user (since the SlackBuild scripts at
SlackBuilds.org are written with the intention of being run as root).
Furthermore,  using 'su -' instead of 'su' is strongly encouraged.
The reason is that some SlackBuild scripts rely on certain tools that
are only available in root's $PATH when root's $PATH is inherited
(i.e. texmf to build man pages) and root's $PATH is not inherited when
only using 'su'.  In any evnet, invoking 'sbopkg' from the command
line will launch the dialog-based interface, and the menus provided
should be fairly self-explanatory.  The main menu allows the user to
rsync with the SlackBuilds.org repository (currently, the size of a
local copy of the SBo repository is less than 50MB), view the
SlackBuilds.org Changelog, check for potential updates to SBo
packages, display the contents of the local cache directory where
source tarballs are saved, display the permanent build log, and browse
or search the local copy of the SBo repository.  Once the browse
function is chosen, the user can select the category of software to
view.  After choosing a category, the user can then view the various
software packages available in that category within the local SBo
repository.  Selecting a package will display another menu allowing
the user to view the package's README, SlackBuild, .info, or
slack-desc files.  The user can also edit the .info file and
SlackBuild and the edited files will remain after doing an rsync.
Additionally, the user can choose to build a package as well using
either the original SlackBuild or the locally-edited one, if present.
If using the dialog interface, and if sbopkg finds a built package for
a particular piece of software in the OUTPUT directory, then sbopkg
will automatically add a new menu entry allowing the user to install
the package if he so chose.  Alternatively, the user can choose to
automatically build or build and install individual packages or
several packages in a build queue.  Finally, if KEEPLOG is set to YES
in the sbopkg.conf file then a permanent log of the build process is
saved in /tmp/sbopkg-build-log.

Alternatively, sbopkg can be run from the command line without using
the dialog interface.  Executing "sbopkg -h" will display a list of
options available from the command line.

Sbopkg also has the capability of loading, saving, and using
user-created queuefiles.  These queuefiles are simple text files with
one application name per line.  By default, when a queuefile is loaded
in the dialog interface, the application is selected, or "ON."  This
can be changed by inserting a "-" in front of the application name in
the queuefile.  Also, queuefiles can reference other queuefiles when
the first character is a "@".  See the readme-queuefiles document in
the doc/ directory for more information.

Certain features of sbopkg rely on outside binaries, such as a pager
to view the text files when sbopkg is run from the comamnd line, and
an editor to edit the .info or SlackBuild files.  The pager function
will look to the environmental variable $PAGER and if that variable is
not defined then it will default to 'more.'  Similarly, the edit
function found when sbopkg is used with the dialog interface will look
to $EDITOR and will default to 'vi' if no $EDITOR has been defined.
If the user wants sbopkg to use another $EDITOR, such as nano, then
adding the requisite information in ~/.bashrc, /etc/profile, or other
similar configuration file to export $EDITOR will suffice.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP 5
.B -b PACKAGE(s)/QUEUE(s)
Search for and build PACKAGE(s) from the local SBo repository.  If more
than one package is specified, they must be in quotes.  For example:

#sbopkg -b "foo bar"

will build foo and then bar.
Queuefile names can also be specified. In that case, all the packages
specified in the queuefile will be built. In the unfortunate case a
token matches both a queuefile name and a package name (i.e. the user
named a queuefile with the name of a package), sbopkg will ask the user
which one should be used.  The tokens (package names or queuefiles)
are processed in the order they are specified on the command line, and
the build order specified in the queuefiles is retained.  If a package
is specified more than once, it gets queued only the first time it is
encountered.

.TP 5
.B -c
Display list of installed SBo packages and potential updates.

.TP 5
.B -d DIRECTORY
Manually specify the full path to the DIRECTORY containing the
local SBo repository.

.TP 5
.B -e ask|continue|stop
Specify what sbopkg should do when it encounters an error while building a
package. Valid options are:

.B ask
: This is the default behavior, asking the user what to do;

.B continue
: Ignore the error and continue processing (act as if the user
answered "Yes" to all questions);

.B stop
: Stop the processing (act as if the user answered "No" to all
questions).

.TP 5
.B -f
Override the default configuration file, which is located by
default at /etc/sbopkg/sbopkg.conf, with another configuration
file.

.TP 5
.B -g PACKAGE(s)
General search for PACKAGE(s) by glob.  For example:

#sbopkg -g nv

will return a list of matches, such as the nvidia packages,
konversation, and other packages with 'nv' in their name.  If more
than one glob is specified, they must be in quotes.

.TP 5
.B -h
Display the help.

.TP 5
.B -i PACKAGE(s)
Search for and build and then install PACKAGE(s) from the local SBo
repository.  If more than one package is specified, they must be in
quotes, and the packages will be built and then installed in the
listed order.  For example:

#sbopkg -i "foo bar"

will build and install foo and then build and install bar.  By
carefully considering the order of the packages listed, the user may
be able to build and install dependencies in the right order before
the final application is built and installed.  Of course, given the
nature of dependencies, this may not always be possible and so
building dependencies like this is not really a supported feature.
Still, when when it works, it can be helpful.

Queuefile names are supported, too. See the explanation for the '-b'
command for details.

.TP 5
.B -k
When used together with -b or -i, this option tells sbopkg to skip
(i.e. don't build) any package it finds to be already installed.

Please note that only a name comparison is performed, so when this
option is specified sbopkg will also omit the build of different
versions of installed packages.

.TP 5
.B -l
Display the SBo ChangeLog.txt and quit.

.TP 5
.B -o
List the currently installed cached source files which are deemed as
obsolete, and optionally delete them.

Source files are obsolete when no SBo script references it any more,
which is something that can happen after rsync-ing the local
repository.

Please note that only the currently active repository is
used to identify the obsoleted sources, so if you build packages with
different repositories (e.g. for different Slackware versions) the
source files only used in the "other" repository will be listed.

.TP 5
.B -P
List the cached package files which are not currently installed on the
system and optionally delete them.

.TP 5
.B -p
List installed SlackBuilds.org packages.

.TP 5
.B -q
Enable the "quiet mode."  When this flag is specified, the output of
some of the command-line options is minimized.

.TP 5
.B -r
Rsync the local repository with SlackBuilds.org and quit.

.TP 5
.B -R
Show all the README files of the queued packages before starting the build.
This is useful when you want to make a final check.

.TP 5
.B -s PACKAGE(s)
Specific search for PACKAGE(s) by PACKAGE name and, if found, display
the README, SlackBuild, .info, and slack-desc files in that order
using $PAGER, which defaults to 'more' as described above.   If more
than one package is specified, they must be in quotes.  For example:

#sbopkg -s "foo bar"

will search for foo and then bar.

.TP 5
.B -u
Check for an update to sbopkg itself and then quit.

.TP 5
.B -V REPO/BRANCH
Set the repository and branch to use.

For a list of valid versions, invoke sbopkg as 
.BR "sbopkg -V ?" .
See the
.B sbopkg.conf (5)
man page for more information about the 'local' repository.

The VERSION format is repository/branch (e.g. SBo/13.1). If the repository is
omitted, sbopkg will first look for the specified branch in the default
repository. If that attempt fails, sbopkg will look for the first matching
branch in any repository.

.TP 5
.B -v
Prints the current version of sbopkg on stdout.

.SH FILES
.B /etc/sbopkg/sbopkg.conf
\ - File to specify configuration options.

.B /etc/sbopkg/renames.d/50-default
\ - Default file that lists software in SBo repository that has been renamed.
See the README-renames.d document in the sbopkg doc/ directory for more
information.

.B /etc/sbopkg/repos.d/{40-sbo.repo,50-sb64.repo,60-local.repo}
\ - Three default files for various types of sbopkg repositories.  See the
README-repos.d document in the sbopkg doc/ directory for more information.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR sbopkg.conf (5)
.BR doc/README
.BR doc/README-queuefiles
.BR doc/README-renames.d
.BR doc/README-repos.d
.BR doc/queuefiles/*

.SH AUTHOR
Chess Griffin
<chess@chessgriffin.com>
